Makerspace Core Responsibilities - January 2015 - May 2015

Cora: 

Hours: Fridays: 10 - 4 / Wednesdays 12-2

Primary Responsibility:

The execution of the primary research project. 
	- Cora has first crack at 3D printer on Friday and Wednesday to complete projects for the primary research project
	- She also has primary authority over the MakerBot (Hashtag) and then Afinia
Community engagement. Talk to people, tell them what we are doing, what's to come.

Secondary Responsibility: 

- Maintenance of the MakerBot and Mini-Printer

Randall:

Randall: Tuesdays: 11 - 3 / Wednesdays 12 - 4 / Mondays? / Fridays?

Primary Responsibilities: 

Getting the Oculus Rift working. 
	- Randall has first crack on computing materials
	- Primary authority over the Afinia and MakerBot on Tuesdays and Mondays to assist with the primary research project
Community engagement. Talk to people, tell them what we are doing, what's to come.

Secondary Responsibility: 

- Maintenance of the Afinia

Rules, Academic: The printers are open for general use, but only once all the projects set for the primary research project are completed. The primary goal should be to the contribution of the Makerspace set up (primary research project / Oculus Rift) and maintenance, then community engagement. 

Rules, Generally: 1) You must check in and out at all times, no matter who is already there. If you bring someone in the Makerspace with you, please note that in the sign-in and sign-out (Cora, checking in @makerspace +1). At no time can your company engage with the machines. 2) Make no promises to the community; we're still figuring things out, we hope to have more news soon; join our mailing list (write down the Email, direct to the website); give them my card IF THEY ARE A BUSINESS OR ENTREPRENEUR.

All activities, errors, crises, communications, must be recorded and approved by David Wright. Please CC David Wright on all Email correspondence about the Makerspace activities, including maintenance contacts, printing errors, or otherwise. It's important to keep a record of what's going on. NEVER ACT ALONE.

 